ROB DODSON: Hey there,
Polycasters, Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So a lot of people recently
have been asking me
if I'm starting a
new project, should I
be using Polymer Starter Kit,
or should I use Polymer CLI?
Now, to help with
this problem, we've
recently taken
Polymer Starter Kit
and migrated it over to being a
Polymer CLI compliant template.
So now we can sort
of definitively say,
you're starting a new project.
You should absolutely
be using Polymer CLI.
Follow me over here
to my laptop and let
me show you how this works.
So I'm going to start off by
running npm install -g polymer
CLI.
This will pull down the latest
version of Polymer CLI, which
includes our new templates.
And once you installed
that, you can
run Polymer init, after
you've created a new project
directory, of course.
And you'll see that you've got
a few options here-- Element,
Application.
Shop, Starter Kit, and we'll
talk about this last one,
Custom Build, in just a second.
But the one we want
right now is Starter Kit.
So you go.
You hit Enter on that.
It's going to run npm install.
It's going to run bower install.
So it will take a minute or
two to pull everything down.
I've already got it set up
on my machine over here,
so let's just go ahead and
open this Starter Kit app,
take a look around the code.
What I've got here is
pretty straightforward.
I've got an index HTML
file inside of here.
I've got all the
appropriate meta tags
so I can get the right app
icons and things like that
on different browsers.
I've also got a link
to a web app manifest.
I've got my polyfills
being lazy loaded.
I've already got some
critical CSS in here.
And then we can go
all the way down,
you can see that I've
got a My App element.
And then looking in
the source for My App,
you can see that we're using
the latest app layout elements,
and we're also, if
you scroll down a bit,
you can see that we're also
using the purple loading
pattern to lazy load
in our dependencies.
You see that down here in
this page change handler.
Now, a lot of this
is stuff that we
covered in a previous
episode on Polymer CLI,
so I will link to that
episode over here.
So you can go check that out.
You can see how this
project is built.
Because basically what we did is
we took the original app drawer
template that shipped
with Polymer CLI,
and we just migrated it over
to being our new Starter Kit.
We tweaked it in a few places
to make it a little bit nicer,
but basically we
thought that was
a really good
place for new users
to start hacking on Polymer.
So we just rebranded it,
and that's what this is.
If we go over to our terminal,
we want to test this thing out.
We just run Polymer
Serve, and that
will boot up our local server.
I'm going to fire
up local host 8080,
and you can see this is a
pretty great little starter kit.
It's using app routes.
You can see as I'm clicking
on these different menu items,
my URL is changing up here.
And if we want to
build this project,
so we want to have it
vulcanize and get sharded
into different bundles, we
can just run Polymer Build,
and that's going to go out.
It's going to generate two
versions of our project.
It's going to generate a built
version, or bundled version.
And it's going to generate
and unbundled version.
So the bundled version is for
people who need vulcanized.
They need web
component shards, which
is most folks at the moment.
The unbundled version
is for those folks
who are living a little bit
more on the bleeding edge
and can use HTTP to
server push to push down
all of their resources.
So that one doesn't do
any sort of concatenation
or vulcanization.
It just keeps all of the
source files separate.
But I'm going to test
out the bundled version,
just to verify everything
worked after my build.
So I do Polymer Serve
Build slash Bundled.
And again, I can go
fire up local host 8080.
I can see we get the same site.
I've got no console errors
or anything like that.
Everything looks good.
And now working on the
vulcanized version and the one
that has been sharded
using web component shards.
So this is really great.
But I know that a lot of people
really liked Polymer Starter
Kit because it came with this
really powerful gulp file.
And if you look at our
source code over here,
you can see that there's
a lot of things included.
But what is not
included is a gulp file.
Instead, Polymer
Starter Kit just
relies on the default build that
the Polymer CLI does for you.
And that's a pretty compelling
option there, right?
It still does vulcanization.
And it'll actually generate
your service worker for you.
It does web component shards
based on your Polymer JSON
file.
So there's a lot of
really cool things
you get from that default build.
But I recognize
that like some teams
have additional things that they
want to add to their process.
And so to support
those folks, we've
taken Polymer Starter
Kit, and we've also
created an additional
generator, which we just
call the Custom Build Template.
So to install this project
over in your terminal,
you would run--
here I'm actually
going to go to the GitHub
page and grab the name here.
So you can find this on GitHub
at Generator Polymer Init
Custom Build.
The name is a little verbose,
but the magic part here
is any project that starts
with generator Polymer
init can actually be plugged
into the Polymer CLI.
So what we're going
to do is we'll
run npm install -g, generator
Polymer init custom build.
That will go.
It'll fetch all the
right resources.
And then the cool
thing about that
is once that is
installed on our system,
we can just run Polymer
init, and now you
can see we have this extra
option down here for custom
build.
So I've already got this
set up on my machine.
Let me go and check out
that custom build app.
Let's go to my desktop.
I'll cd into Custom App.
Let's take a look at this.
Now, this project is set
up pretty much identical
to Polymer Starter Kit.
It's literally based on
that Polymer Starter Kit
that we were just looking at,
with the exception that it
has this really cool gulp
file that it ships with.
So over here we've
got this gulp file JS.
I'll boost this up
a little bit for you
so you can kind of
see what's going on.
And the main magic that is
going on in the gulp file
is rather than just rely
on vanilla gulp by itself,
we're actually using the
library that powers Polymer
CLI's build to sort of like help
us construct our pipeline here.
So that library, if
we go over to GitHub,
I can show you the page for it.
It's called Polymer Build.
And this is just the
underlying node module
that powers Polymer CLI.
And the cool thing
about this is we
can run our files through this.
We can have it do all of
the things it normally
does, like generate our service
worker and stuff like that.
But it also gives us hooks where
we can step in and we can say,
hey, I want to do some
additional processing
of the source files.
So over in the
gulp file here you
can see that there's a little
bit of configuration data
up here at the top, right?
So this lets you set the name of
the output directory and things
like that, the name of your
service worker file, et cetera.
And then you can see that
we've also gone ahead
and we've sort of pre-defined a
few useful gulp tasks for you.
So we've got a clean task here,
a task for minifying images.
These all live over in
this Gulp Task Directory.
If you want to create
additional gulp tasks,
you want to have sort of like a
modular gulp file, where things
are separated out like that,
you can add your own task
to this Gulp Task Directory.
That's really what
it's there for.
And then we've got these
two functions here-- source
and dependencies.
The source function is
where we process all
of your actual source files.
What the Polymer
build library does
is it looks at all
of your HTML imports,
and it extracts the inline CSS
and JavaScript and the HTML,
and it turns it into
just one big file
stream that we can then
just filter and pass
to different gulp tasks.
So you can see here we're
calling split resources.
This project object here is part
of the Polymer build library.
So we're splitting
our resources.
We're turning it into
that one big stream.
And then we can just use gulp
if to filter by file type
and then pass that resource
to a particular task.
So here we're
saying, hey, filter
by all the different images.
When you find an image, pass
it through this minify task.
We also have this
dependencies task down here.
This is where we do basically
the exact same thing,
but we do it for
your dependencies
instead of your source files.
So if you want to
do something special
to your bower components
or something like that,
that's where you
would do that work.
So I think what would
be a cool example
is for me to just show you
how you can add your own gulp
task to this file.
So right now I'll just run
gulp to generate a build.
And we can see what it outputs.
And you can see that
it mention that it
minifed our images, because we
have that custom task in there.
And going back to our editor,
I'll go look at the build file.
I'll look at the
bundled version.
And I'm going to
open the My App file.
So this is sort of like
the place where everything
is being vulcanized into.
You'll see that
there's a lot of stuff
kind of mushed into this file.
So you've got all
of the source code
for Polymer being
mushed in here.
And then if I go
down to the bottom,
you can see this is the source
code for my actual My App
element.
And right now none
of this JavaScript
has been minified in
any way whatsoever.
So let's change that.
Let's run this code
through a minifier.
To do that, I'm going
to go to my console.
I'm going to do in
npm install save dev,
and we're going to
throw in gulp uglify.
So wait a sec for that to
download off of the interwebs.
[HUMMING]
OK, so now we've got
uglify in our project.
And I'm going to go over
to the gulp file here.
I'm going to go over to where
my gulp tasks currently are,
and I'll drop in a
const for uglify.
And now in this
sources section I'm
going to drop in a
little one liner here,
where I pipe any of my
files through gulp if.
If those files look
like JavaScript files,
let's run them through uglify.
So remember, we're in the
source's function here.
So this is just going to be
applied to our actual source
files, not to our dependencies.
So let's see what the
output of that looks like.
We'll run it through gulp.
We're going to go back.
We will look at our build,
look at the bundled version.
We look at My App.
And now you can see that
down here at the bottom,
you can see that my
code was minified.
So the definition for the
My App element, that got
mushed together, right?
That looks good.
But if we go back
to the top, you
can see that all of this
Polymer source code, this
remains unminfied, right?
It's still all huge
and gigantic here.
So I can do basically the
same thing that I did there.
I can apply that same
task to my dependencies.
So I could run my
dependencies through uglify
as well, if I would like.
I will run gulp again.
This time it'll
take a little bit
longer because we're processing
a lot more code through uglify.
And when I go back,
now I look at my build,
and now you can see that
all of that dependency code
has been minified as well.
If you want, the
last thing we can do
is we can just run a Polymer
serve build slash bundled,
and then we will--
[BUZZING]
I should probably put my
phone in airplane mode.
By the way, that was my mom
calling about my wedding.
So we'll go back
to our terminal.
We'll run Polymer serve
build slash bundled.
Go over to a local
host 8080, and now we
can see we are running
our built version
with minified JavaScript.
And we still have everything
that we have from Starter Kit.
We've still got that cool router
and the app layout elements.
But we now have
the option of kind
of hooking in where we want
to and adding our own gulp
task, which is pretty great.
That about covers it for today.
In the next episode,
I actually want
to talk about how you can build
your own generator, how you can
actually plug into Polymer CLI
and create your own scaffold,
just like we did with
this custom build here.
But if you have any
questions on this episode,
please leave them for me
down below in the comments,
or, as always, you can hit
me up on a social network
of your choosing,
at #askPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]